README.md, before:

# Simple GitHub scraper

This is a template repository for a simple [GitHub scraper](https://simonwillison.net/2020/Oct/9/git-scraping/), a technique pioneered by Simon Willison.

## The 'simple' part

At this point the template only supports very simple fetching and committing of a JSON data file from somewhere on the internet.

Replace `https://www.example.com/data.json` in the [fetch.yaml](.github/workflows/fetch.yaml) file with the URL of the data you want to scrape.

Commit and push the repo to GitHub and you're ready to go.

By default the scraper will run [once per week](https://crontab.guru/#6_16_*_*_0), but you can change the cron schedule in the [fetch.yaml](.github/workflows/fetch.yaml) file.

Data is stored in [data.json](data.json).

You may need to update the permissions on the new repository to allow workflows to make commits to the repository. 

![In settings -> actions -> general look for the setting that says 'Read and write permissions' under the heading 'Workflow permissions'](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/596563/235338137-57b78eb4-a573-40c0-a77a-a132787288bf.png)

Commit message:

Add notes about extracting history from the repo

README.md, after:

# Simple GitHub scraper

This is a template repository for a simple [GitHub scraper](https://simonwillison.net/2020/Oct/9/git-scraping/), a technique pioneered by Simon Willison.

## The 'simple' part

This template only supports very simple fetching and committing of a JSON data file from somewhere on the internet. For
scraping more complex sites, try the [better-scrape-template](https://github.com/drzax/better-scrape-template).

Replace `https://www.example.com/data.json` in the [fetch.yaml](.github/workflows/fetch.yaml) file with the URL of the data you want to scrape.

Commit and push the repo to GitHub and you're ready to go.

By default the scraper will run [once per week](https://crontab.guru/#6_16_*_*_0), but you can change the cron schedule in the [fetch.yaml](.github/workflows/fetch.yaml) file.

Data is stored in [data.json](data.json).

You may need to update the permissions on the new repository to allow workflows to make commits to the repository. 

![In settings -> actions -> general look for the setting that says 'Read and write permissions' under the heading 'Workflow permissions'](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/596563/235338137-57b78eb4-a573-40c0-a77a-a132787288bf.png)

## Using the scraped data

The way this scraper works by default is to update the data as JSON a file in the repository, so the repo always
contains the latest version of the data, but the repository history contains a full history of the data from when
scraping began. 

This makes a time series analysis of the data possible, though not exactly straight forward. The
[`git-history`](https://datasette.io/tools/git-history) tool can be used to extract the full history into an SQLite database.
